We are all people who have been involved in
business, and as for Yen, she doesn't know about
this. However, on the 10th day of the first
lunar month, which is the day of the God of Wealth,
business people usually
buy gold to bring
good luck. Yen doesn't know
where this tradition comes from. Yen would like to read the question from the
crystal calendar: "Sister, every year I
see that on the day of the God of Wealth, the
10th day of the first lunar month, everyone rushes
to buy gold to pray for good luck and prosperity throughout the
year. Honestly, buying gold on this day is very expensive,
but if you don't buy it, you're afraid that your
business won't be successful in the new year. Last year, my family
bought gold, but our business
was very difficult. So I want to ask for your
advice." Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
when doing business, people
say that whatever you do, whatever offerings you make, whatever rituals you perform will bring
prosperity, and people usually
follow that advice. But now, with the
development of Buddhism, some people
also see this practice as a way to ensure success.  If you can't obtain it, then
start to doubt and ask
what the Buddhist perspective is. Respectfully, to
you, my friend,
the idea of ​​buying gold and bringing it home will lead to business failure. That's completely
untrue. The idea that buying gold
will ruin your business is baseless.
The Buddha taught that happiness and peace come from
having merit. Where does this merit come from? I
will read two sutras, the
Buddha's teachings. The first sutra is about the source of
merit, found in the Great Sutra of the Vietnamese Anguttara Nikaya,
Chapter 3, Section 2, Part 3: The Buddha once
taught the monks that due to the
presence of these three things,
a virtuous man with faith creates
much merit. What are these three things?
Due to the presence of this faith,
a virtuous man with faith creates much merit—
that is the first. I will continue reading the sutra on the
presence of this material giving.
A virtuous man with faith
creates much merit—that is the second—having
material giving, meaning the person already possesses...
This belief, when combined with offerings, will generate much
merit. (Continuing the sutra, due to the presence
of those worthy of offerings.) The
monks and virtuous men with faith
generate much merit due to the presence of these three principles: First, faith in the Three Jewels; faith in the Buddha; faith in the Buddha's Dharma; faith in the Sangha.
These three principles include: first, faith in the Three Jewels;
faith in the
Buddha; faith in the Dharma; faith in the
Sangha. This is the Three
Jewels. Then, second, having
offerings to the Three Jewels; and third, the
recipients of the offerings. The recipients of the offerings
within the Three Jewels are the Sangha.
How should the Sangha receive
our offerings so that we will have
merit? (Continuing to the second sutra, the
sutra on the two categories of people worthy of
offerings, from the Vietnamese Buddhist Canon, Anguttara Nikaya,
Chapter 2, Chapter on the Balance of Mind.)
Once, the Buddha was in Savio, the garden of
Anathapindika. The householder
came to pay homage and asked the Buddha, "How
many categories of people are worthy of
offerings in this world, and where are they needed?"  Giving
alms and offerings means he asked two
things: firstly, how many types of people are
worthy of offerings,
and secondly, where should one give alms and
offerings? Continuing to read this scripture, the
householder has two types of people worthy of
offerings in this world: those who are still learning and those who are not.
These two types of people are worthy of offerings
in this world and, in this context, the Jetavana Monastery. Those who are still learning
are the monks
practicing the Buddha's teachings to seek
liberation. Those who are not yet learning are those who have attained
enlightenment. So, these are the two types of
people. In this context, there are two types of people: one type is those who have renounced the world to
practice the
Buddha's teachings to seek liberation, that is, those who diligently practice the Buddha's teachings and strictly observe the precepts; the
second type is those who have attained enlightenment.
And where is it worthy of offerings?
Here, it is the Jetavana Monastery, that is, building
monasteries for the monks, building temples for the
monks to practice and cultivate purity. If
you give alms here, you will receive
merit for building monasteries and temples.  Giving up
residence to these monks is a
blessing because they will
practice the Dharma correctly there and teach others to
practice the Dharma correctly. Therefore, the act of
offering generates merit. Dear
friends, including those with crystal records and all
esteemed fellow practitioners, if we
want merit, we must have faith
in the Three Jewels. To have faith in the Three
Jewels, we must listen to the Buddha's teachings and
see if they are truly beneficial
to us. We should listen to the law of karma and consider whether it is
real.
If it is real, then faith in the
Buddha's true Dharma will arise. From this faith,
we will be able to see which monks are
practicing the Dharma correctly, and we will trust in them
and make offerings. From that,
merit will arise. Therefore,
whenever we increase our faith
in the Buddha's teachings—that is, listening to,
studying, and contemplating the Dharma—our faith will
increase, and then merit will arise.
Listening to the Dharma means listening; contemplating
means thinking and practicing the Dharma.  It's about
saying and doing things that are applied to daily life, which
generates merit. When we make offerings, we
should make offerings to the monks who
are practicing the Buddha's teachings to
escape suffering, as well as to those who have attained enlightenment.
Building and repairing temples also generates
merit. So, buying gold and bringing it home doesn't automatically
generate merit. That might come
from gold traders, but it
has no basis.
Business people with money
can't let their money sit idle;
they have to keep it
circulating to generate merit. Buying gold and
leaving it there doesn't generate merit, that's
not in line with the principles of
business. Oh
[music]